hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of
neonewstoday.com
i'm your host dylan grabowski this
episode of the smart economy podcast is
part of the inaugural series focusing on
decentralized autonomous organizations
that are known as daos in episode 3 of
the dao series i chat with yev mushnik
founder of launch legal a law firm
headquartered in denver colorado yev's
firm operates using a distributed
services model and supports
entrepreneurs and innovators across a
variety of industries including
blockchain health agriculture education
and financial tech space and energy
examples of legal and advisory services
her firm offers include fund formations
crowdfunding corporate governance and
much more
in this conversation yev and i discuss
her journey into the legal field and
eventually blockchain the differences
between projects in bull and bear
markets the various types of dows yev
has advised and heard of participating
in dows related to humanitarian efforts
and employee services dow tooling the
future of dao's and much more just a
reminder nothing said on this podcast is
a solicitation to buy or sell any tokens
that nothing should be taken as
financial or legal advice
and that the host or guests may hold any
tokens discussed in any given episode
with that said i really enjoyed chatting
with yev and i hope you'll enjoy the
conversation too
thank you deb for coming to join the
new revamped smart economy podcast we
you have much nick who's joining us
today how are you i'm doing great thank
you for having me don yeah you're the
first like lawyer i've ever had come on
the podcast so i guess this is the part
where we say anything we talk about here
isn't legal advice thank you for uh for
taking the words out of my mouth
basically
there's no financial or legal advice and
i am not your lawyer but i am humans
and then also to get uh another like
conflict of interest out of the way you
are a lawyer for neo-news today we
incorporated after we became a validator
node so you have helped us set up our
business too so this is really cool to
be able to bring the worlds together it
is not coming full circle
we've never had a lawyer on the pod so
maybe we can just like kind of start off
with your
legal journey where did you go to
undergrad where'd you go to grad school
where did you like fall in love with the
field of law well
i say i'd probably say that i fell in
love with the field of law when i was
maybe in second grade but it was in
competition with being a veterinarian
and a policewoman as well
so i guess this profession prevailed
somehow um
yeah i mean i i kind of had a slightly
non-linear path into my profession
and so far as
i went to undergrad at the university of
colorado
in the middle of my undergrad degree i
went and studied abroad in paris and was
learning french and doing online classes
and then found out that you could do
your law degree in the uk as an
undergraduate degree so you didn't have
to finish your undergrad to apply for a
kind of big postgraduate education
and we had friends in england i applied
just like randomly not not even knowing
really how the english system works got
in had a scholarship and i was like
okay i guess this is the way the wind is
going to blow and
moved to england and started studying a
lot while i was still studying
for my undergrads i decided to do both
at the same time i was taking a couple
of online classes during law school
coming back uh in the summer and taking
a full load and then ended up graduating
from law school before i graduated from
undergrad
so a lot of people ask me why i went to
law school in the uk and it's
really for
no real logical irrational reason it
just so happened but it was a really
good choice and
at that time you could go to
law school for 7 000 pounds a year
compared to something like 150 000 here
in the us
but i
definitely fell in love
i think i knew i wanted to do
transactional law and i was drawn to m a
and business activity just innovation
and movement but that was also competing
with um doing human rights long term
i
think in my life you know you kind of
have these like extreme opposites um and
i did end up pursuing a master's in
human rights law as well so i was able
to
get that a little bit out of my system
and then also in a way incorporate that
into my practice now in
through practicing in web 3 and in
dealing with
decentralized companies that are
are doing something for for good so
and after you finished um your
undergraduate degree which was wrapped
in to also getting a law degree which is
awesome i went to graduate school for
for planning which felt like um
i was repeating efforts because i got an
undergraduate degree in planning but i
had to get a degree through an
accredited university so i knew when i
graduated undergrad that i wanted to hit
the ground running but couldn't because
i needed to get a graduate's degree so
after you got your law degree were you
able to just kind of like
jump into cutting edge tech were you
doing patenting you said you also
studied human rights law so were you
also able to like where did the
direction take you after you graduated i
mean you're in london and did you come
back to the states did you start working
with british companies so i ended up i
came back to the states i did some
summer internships at
law firms in the in england
came back to the states applied to sit
for the bar in new york did a little bit
of traveling in australia new zealand
living out of camper van
and then took the bar
and was recruited to my first job which
happened to be in moscow in 2008
so i worked for a large international
law firm called squire patent blogs did
m a private equity international
cross-border transactions
and then only did my llm or master's
degree after i had already been
qualified to practice so i think a lot
of people um do it a little bit
differently but as i mentioned i kind of
i started my first years as an associate
in a really tumultuous financial
time and so everybody was really trying
to find ways to
keep their job and keep relevant and
keep their heads out of the chopping
block so
that was kind of a way to to try to
preserve my position
and i did that in dc
and the tumultuous time is this during
the housing crisis yeah this is 2008 so
when i when i just started the market
was just
when i was recruited actually um the
market was just
hot it was especially the russian market
and having the russian language even
though i'm originally from ukraine but
having preserved the russian language
into my adulthood that was such a huge
asset for me because there were so many
deals so much activity going on in in
russia so they had recruited me um
and then
like it the ball hit a little bit after
it did in the in the us with the lehman
brothers but it hit and then it just
went it just froze and so
it was a scary time i think i still have
ptsd
since that time when i probably always
will
yeah i mean i graduated into that world
and it was hard to um even get started
to get the the ball rolling but that's
really interesting that you were working
on mma in russia so were you doing
dealing with like a lot of commodities
were you dealing with oil and gas what
were kind of
i guess the international sort of
transactions you were making that might
have started leading to the path that
you're in now in web 3 and crypto yeah
that's exactly i mean there was a in the
private equity space there's a huge boom
in technology and venture capital and i
think that's really what kind of planted
the seed when i moved over to dc
i did
intercorruption work white collar
investigations so kind of
reoriented a little bit to keep relevant
because there was a lot of that going on
and then
after spending some time in dc i was
recruited to a general counsel position
at a publicly traded tech company and
that's really kind of where
i think i you know firmly understood
that that was the right place for me the
technology world and then
about
four or five years after that um i fell
into the blockchain legal rabbit hole
i think that's annoyment
yeah we i was actually looking back at
our first correspondence and we met at
the old rhino booze hall during startup
week in 2018 and that's where i also met
like dan shields and a bunch of other
really uh for me back then formative
people in the local colorado blockchain
community
it was called the blockchain hub
actually i have a note here
so
back then
you know i think you'd you'd probably
been
working with like a handful of crypto
oriented companies this was like just
after the 2017 ico boom so how did you
end up start working with um
cryptocurrency or blockchain companies
was it during the ico boom was it
slightly after what were
the types of people and conversations
you were having then
oh i always
think back to those fun days but yeah it
was right at the
about 2017 um started working with a
couple of
new projects you know wanting to raise
capital wanting to issue tokens and i
don't think i will ever ever ever
remove from my brain um the vision of a
potential client coming in for a meeting
at our offices
and i know that we're not on video
but um literally taking his hand and
showing us how he's there to print money
and
and then just that that the visual or
his like gesture of standing there not
knowing at all what like the business
plan he had but
just telling us that we're all gonna be
rich and
you know meeting on islands with the
odds and stuff
and then we didn't proceed with
engagement with them obviously but but
we had a couple of those types of
interactions you know a lot of people
just wanting to get
rich quickly
and
you know some did and some had
successful projects that are still
around or successful teams and a lot i
said the majority like
just
fizzled out and i've never seen them
again
yeah and these were just like teams with
recently put together white papers and
just trying to jump on board to the hype
wagon yeah white papers i don't know if
that's that's even the proper word for
them because there wasn't much like
actual intellectual
thought going into those pieces of i
don't know toilet paper that's what they
were
and were you were these individuals you
were meeting were they mostly local or
were because because my understanding is
the clients you work with now and we'll
get to what you do now but my
understanding is you're you're kind of
working at a global level international
level so back in 2017 and 18 when we
first met were you dealing with mostly
clients you met in colorado or were you
still being connected with individuals
across the world and across the country
what was like the pipeline i guess you
could call uh to clients it primarily it
was it was local you know we
colorado
is great because it has such an active
community and so
we would have i don't know if you recall
how many meetups a week of different
like or multiple meetups a night even
happening and so just meeting people
there going to those learning how to
how to code right like how to like just
all type things like blockchain and beer
there was like learn like blockchain 101
whatever it was there were so many like
inclusive groups and so out of that we
drummed up a lot of a lot of potential
clients and then and then started going
to all of the conferences as well and so
getting
kind of a little bit more of a broader
national reach i remember going to
consensus in
2018 um and meeting a lot of folks from
denver there but also just from
everywhere i ran into somebody actually
just very randomly i ran into the
husband
of a woman that i worked with at my
first job in moscow and he was also
working on a on a web 3 startup at that
time and he was registering you know in
the long line at consensus in new york
that's awesome this uh this emerging
industry creates a an already small
world it creates a feeling that it's
that it becomes smaller so 2018 hits uh
maybe start getting less of these
unintellectual white papers
had launch legal your company been
formulated at this point and if so if
most of your clients are like cutting
edge web 3 innovative tech by the time
we met that was the depths or like the
almost the very bottom of the bear
market but you still had to go through
and you know until the boom again in
2020 so what were like the types of
clients you were picking up after the
ico craze
if you were still seeing interest in
blockchain or web3 type of companies
yeah good question the bear market
definitely hit and we felt it because i
felt it in my firm
my
foundation has always been corporate and
securities so
you know i just could have just shifted
gears and and kind of shifted the
balance of the types of clients i was
taking to
well at that point it was probably like
80 percent that were more traditional
startups early stage companies looking
to raise capital
and just a handful of either
clients that that stuck with me from
2017 that had you know
that i had attracted during that initial
ico boom
you know every now and again just some
projects mostly on kind of corporate
structuring
um we definitely worked with
opolis and the employment commons and
that was you know a big under legal
undertaking during that time in
structuring
basically the first dow co-op which we
do a lot at the moment
yes i mean so
it was more of a trickle for sure
and then you know obviously defy summer
hit and everything changed again and so
like what happened when d5 summer hit
what were the types of people you were
meeting were they still kind of like the
like making the money
kind of
just your people
a few of the d5 folks
yeah i really i mean i have to say like
having
gone through 2017 2018 2019 uh or 20 i
guess yeah 28th and 2019
but i've had a lot of deja vu in the
last two years with the conferences with
the bling with the
you know the doge decked out
car that we saw at east denver you know
that was very reminiscent of what we saw
back in the day but um
yeah i mean a lot of d5 it was really
heavy d5 before it became really heavy
dow which i feel like it's more focused
now but still
you know a lot of
capital formation and
securities compliance and regulatory
concerns
yeah i'm wondering because defy is built
off of these protocols that anybody can
provide liquidity and then you receive
interest on that you receive fees on
that like
the whole principle behind this is that
you don't need a centralized entity so
it's kind of interesting that you're
seeing a lot of clients or potential
clients talking about defy when
these are protocols that are distributed
so what are like some examples of
businesses that needed to
seek um like local jurisdiction legal
compliance if this industry is so
decentralized yeah i mean i think a lot
of them were running
you know liquidity pools
and realizing that they were making
a decent amount of
monetary flow and
proceeds from them they were just trying
to figure out how to
how to protect themselves protect their
teams protect nodes you know and
viability has always been a huge concern
interesting so even if like my name
isn't on
a d5 protocol with an ip address that's
based out of a local jurisdiction there
that could potentially someday blow back
on me if i don't have all my bases
covered potentially yes
yeah i know that uh a lot of like
questions of is this legal or is it not
is always like well it depends it
depends yeah that's the classic lawyer
the answer
so
beyond kind of like the very
showy blingy dogecar ferraris from 2017
till today like are a lot of the people
that are starting to seek your legal
advice
is the concentration of people coming to
talk to you is that increasing with more
and more people who are bringing like
solid legitimate projects to you and
less and less so like the vaporware
white papers are you noticing like an
actual
trend upward towards serious legitimate
companies that seek your advice i am
yeah i really
i've been blown away at some of the
sophistication of of knowledge around
the legal issues
i think most folks that that seek my
services
have done their diligence have you know
i
really can even understand you know a
lot of the exemptions a lot of the
comparative analysis that goes into
jurisdiction
kind of identifying the correct
jurisdiction for setting up your dow or
you know decentralized project or
whatever it is so the sophistication the
expertise the teams are just so
different i don't know i'm sure you
remember as well in like
2017 i don't know it's like pre and post
right and so you have the white papers
with like like a thousand different like
little circles of people there and this
is our team and this is what's going to
get us all this money
but it's really like legitimate folks
and and
yeah innovators and
and developers and technologists and
they're like thinking through tokenomics
they're thinking through
launching and they're they're trying to
do it in a sustainable way it's not you
know it's for the long term
yeah i think that's the the major
difference after i mean d5 summer really
highlighted that wow these protocols and
these and these businesses they can
really do
cool and unique things that are actual
use cases now and not just kind of moon
shots hoping that i can decentralize
like uber or something like that now you
have these d5 protocols and even nfts
now that are really starting to make um
real world use cases and highlight that
this technology can actually be used for
uh things other than food coins or dog
coins or whatever
so
you've been kind of alluding to dowse as
like kind of like the hot thing you're
working on right now
and for for the interviews i've
conducted in every conversation i've had
dao is kind of like art you can't define
it but you can tell what it is when you
see it so maybe in your words you can
tell us what a dao is
yeah it is a term of art i guess um
i really like the way that that dao
house
terms and i'm probably gonna
garble it a little bit but it's it's
kind of like these magic internet
communities that that pool around
resources and assets and i think
in the most simplest way that's exactly
what it is but it's it is simple and
simple is powerful and simple is
is beautiful
and simple is
has meaning and a way to kind of corral
around an issue or a project or you know
whatever it is or a crisis like the war
that's happening in ukraine
is there a dow that's launched that i
know that there's nfts that have
launched and donations that have gone
through and kind of the the crisis has
really uh exhibited how useful
blockchain and cryptocurrencies can be
in times of crisis that's exactly i mean
there couldn't be a better use case for
i guess if i don't use cases the right
word but for a dao or web 3 technology
and i know that you're speaking with
pleaser so that they helped with ukraine
which i'm a part of um
we started ukraine united dao on the day
after or the day of the crisis on the
24th even i think it was
which is really focusing on
pulling web3 talent and and devs and
kind of more like a technical approach
to the crisis so
we are going to launch a hackathon
called pack for ukraine try to develop
products and services um that can be
used in this war and other crises in the
future as well and that that has had
really great engagement um it's not you
know we don't have a token
but we are loosely um a community
like a magic internet community trying
to do good do you guys have some sort of
like examples of projects you would like
to see people in the hackathon work on
are there
already needs of providing extra layers
of web3 technology that exist but need
some fine tuning do you have an idea for
you know what hackathon participants
might engage on yeah um
and we sort of have a a
fuller flesh style
list in our discord so if you want to
try to join please hit me up on twitter
at muchnickev
but we initially started with even just
like building very simple interfaces
matching
those who wanted to provide aid and
refugees so we set something up like
that for irish volunteers matching with
ukrainian refugees and that was you know
received really tremendously
we had initially talked about
peer-to-peer decentralized communication
platforms as well and kind of
integrating like mesh into them in case
internet went down
trying to figure out solutions for
authenticating where funds were being
deployed creating bots for
matching those on the ground that were
providing services and then what kind of
general focus is on humanitarian aid
and then um free press and censored
press as well and trying to preserve
that as in any way that we can
yeah that's a it's a really diverse list
of needs and kind of identified use
cases right now and i feel like when
hackathons happen like to have
that kind of path for for participants
to kind of build within it really just
helps to focus and sharpen the
usefulness of the tools and projects and
applications that come out of that one
of the things i've been noticing in
conversations about daos is
there's unique ways to communicate
amongst the members of the community and
there's almost different levels of
communication that's needed there's
like an informal discord where people
can just have kind of conversations and
then there's more of like a formal
voting process maybe a forum online
where
proposals can be ingrained and have like
a little bit more permanence as opposed
to a discord server where things can
just kind of get lost in
the weeds so what are like the types of
communication that you guys have with is
it save ukraine dow there's ukraine
though and then there's ukraine united
tao and then unchained fund as well and
are you a member of all of them
okay so what are like the types of
communications that you notice that are
successful
across those different taos with the
informal discussions and then the formal
ones as well yeah um i
am saying
telegram has been really
one of the kind of premier
ways to communicate and create like some
committees and sub groups discord has
been
you know solid kind of for reaching out
to the broader community but if you
really want something or like a
a medium where
it's more
action tasks and you're you're seeing
you know some actual movement and some
output i think that you know telegram
has been great and like what
technologies are are being used for
conducting votes are you is are these
built on ethereum are they built on
other networks what are the tools that
are available for people who want to
like use a token to vote aminosis um has
been great and i think it's
kind of has been the go-to in all of
these but mostly they're ethereum based
um that was and from your experience why
do you think that is it's hard to say
from a legal perspective but i guess
from a general perspective it's just
there's a lot of plug and play right in
like a dow house situation or
like even like syndicate i mean i know
that it's not it's probably not the most
efficient way but it's you know kind of
the
innovation that's that's been layered on
top of ethereum it just seems to i think
that's been the default i know that you
know there's
kind of more of a branch out in an
effort to to use polygon mirrors is
doing some great things and my
understanding is that mirror is a lot
more
like
novice you user the the ui and ux is a
lot better than
ethereum is but i'm not you know casting
any any kind of preference either way i
think like the more people that you can
onboard and have an on-ramp into this
world and you know it's only it's such a
small percentage of people that really
understand all the like the technical
aspects like metamask can be really
difficult and bridging and converting
and all that stuff i mean it's not for
for the lay person so whoever does it
right right and and can bring on more
people to be
um active without all of these like
hurdles to cross i think that's the
winner
yeah i i use near near has great ui um
sometimes it's um when using different
networks it's a little bit of a learning
curve but i mean like yeah ethereum is
king and this composability is kind of
you know when we talk with developers
they all like to have their own speed
and way that things are done but
ultimately having those building blocks
and a network effect that surrounds it
is kind of what really wins the day out
so that's why i wanted to expand this
podcast to kind of get a better
understanding of the lay of the
cryptocurrency land because if all these
chains succeed in the future then
interoperability is kind of the way
and you know there's not just one
vertical that that works on blockchain
or a specific blockchain so
you've been working with a lot of new
folks that are working on dows are they
trying to
locate here in colorado or wyoming
specifically like how come
uh they end up at the beginning of the
funnel and end up speaking with you at
launch legal
what's the kind of structure
in our region for that makes dao's kind
of incorporable if that's a word yeah i
mean um
one i guess just kind of as a legal
nuance
you can
form an entity you can do jurisdiction
shopping right so as a colorado citizen
i can form my entity in wyoming i can
form my entity in delaware i can go to
puerto rico you know so we have
that flexibility but
wyoming and colorado have really moved
the needle on what particularly wyoming
as we know in on the regulatory front
and then colorado has
existing legislation specifically in the
cooperative statutes that don't even
need to be
tinkered with it's it's already sort of
there and and the overlap between dao
principles and co-op principles align so
well
and
that seems to have been
approved or not maybe not approved is
the right word but um
pushed forward
by the governor and then by our
securities commissioner here in colorado
so it makes it just from a regulatory
perspective it makes it a
a favorable environment as well
apart from being able to to do this
jurisdiction shopping
so like i know that there's just so much
that probably goes into distilling this
uh answer into something really
bite-sized but why would a dao want to
incorporate into a legal jurisdiction a
number of reasons including
having some kind of a legal rapper
around a dow
insulates the members and the
participants and in the dao from general
liability otherwise if you have a group
of people working together
with a concentration around a pool of
assets and something goes wrong
you
default to general partnership and a
general partnership designation is
basically unlimited liability for so one
partner can have recourse or not partner
but one member or participant can have
recourse against all of the others
having
kind of a legal status to a dow as well
gives you
the ability
to sue and get sued and enter into
contracts and there's no bridge at the
moment that exists between that that
analog and web 3 world in in the current
um in any current legislation whether
state or federal
have there been any instances that come
to mind of an entity or jurisdiction
that has sued a dow yet not that i know
of
i know that
there was the the first
dow in wyoming that applied to be a
public company and filed their s1
and they
basically for kind of technical issues
that that filing wasn't approved but i
have not yet seen any um lawsuits or
claims against unregistered dows
yeah despite the fact that you know
they've been around since 2016 there's
the dao that was uh hacked and
eventually led to the split of ethereum
and ethereum classic
and there was still kind of talk
throughout the 17 18 19 cycle it didn't
really seem like dallas kind of came
back to the forefront until 2020ish and
and a lot last year so why were the
fields ripe or the seeds sewn for dows
to kind of become
popular now even though they've been
around for six years at this point i
guess i would say
the the technical infrastructure right
has has grown enough to support
daos and their functionality on chain
that maybe
we didn't quite have
back in in that period i would also say
you know just with that that bear market
mentality i think that people weren't
ready to jump in i think they were
hibernating you know building and maybe
that building was already happening in
kind of a dow structure but we just
didn't have like the the formal dao
tooling for management that we do known
yeah because there's just so many
different types of dows now um
off the top of my head you know there's
like the the entities like constitution
and pleaser dao that formulate around
these ideals and that's what the group
the members get behind then there's like
treasury dows where
there's a pool of funding and they can
you know fund open source developers
something like raid guild or there's a
new one in the neo ecosystem that just
launched called grant chairs so what are
some other examples of
like ideals
and you mentioned of course like uh
people coming together to help uh
war-torn areas what are some other like
ideals of types of taos that you've seen
come across your desk uh over the past
year or two well there are a lot of dows
that are
being summoned around the metaverse
activity um there are dows that we are
seeing focusing on regenerative ag
and in the environment um which i think
is
is incredibly compelling and i'm seeing
gaming
taos
um pooled investment vehicles
um obviously
employment and and kind of
building out a like a public
infrastructure around that
i'm seeing producer and consumer
around
even like ethical clothing and and
sourcing that in like a community
type space
we are seeing
like venture
studios and accelerators um trying to
get more
folks in in the space and trying to
figure out kind of an environment to
incubate them and fund them um gosh the
list goes on for so long but yeah i mean
i think the ones that are
have this mission and
kind of social impact are the ones that
i'm definitely drawn to
but there's
you name it there's a tower there's a
pizza dough there's a beard out there's
oh and and i guess i have to put in a
plug for a metagamma delta like ones
that have
diversity and inclusion in mind and
trying to promote that yeah i know that
this isn't necessarily dow related but i
was just having a conversation with
someone who's brand new to blockchain
and cryptocurrency she didn't even own
anything until this year
and she's already hearing about these
like formations of women empowering nfts
like i'm also super happy to have you on
this podcast because you bring a
experience that you know 99 of our
guests that are mostly just males don't
bring so how has maybe the blockchain
industry become more welcoming or
embracing or have you noticed towards
women or have you noticed an increase in
women that are migrating to blockchain
from other industries i i really have um
and it's it's amazing to see especially
having
the ability to compare in like 2017
conferences to 2022 conferences there's
a higher representation of of women
minorities
at these events and then also just
understanding that this is you know you
can do web 3 full time it's not
something you just like tinker with and
and like dip your toe in the water too
so there are a lot of like female
developers that are like super savvy and
been having conversations you know about
maybe setting up a
link of a fund that's focused for
we're focused at pulling women into like
the investment space into and getting
them to
kind of understand web3 a little bit
more too
do you think that maybe there's a
quicker
transition of like degenerizing the
blockchain space because of the ability
for people to be anonymous online and
now you can just be a picture of a frog
and no one cares about your race sex
exactly anything like that so is that
something that you're noticing just in
this industry in particular across
blockchain as a whole as opposed to any
other kind of
innovative or cutting-edge tech industry
you've ever been a part of you know it's
definitely like drew me to the space
initially um
and that is you know it's more or less
agnostic um that you could access cap
especially with back to the conversation
on icos you can access capital without
having through that having to go through
that good old boy network of like vc
capital silicon valley capital and that
was i was like wow this is this is a
game changer right and i don't
i don't have to jump through all these
hoops and i think yeah you you hit the
nail on the head with that so you can be
some kind of anon and contribute people
listen to you in the same way without
you know the gender or any other kind of
filter
yeah i mean it's almost as if uh as it
should have been the entire time like
your experience and skills do all the
talking that's it yeah it's like a
renaissance
in that fact and do you think that this
was brought on specifically by web3
technologies do you think this is a
cultural phenomena like we were just
going to get here
even if we didn't have digital identity
and blockchain and
oracle networks and all these crazy
things that are making nfts and d5 and
dows happen today you know i don't know
that we would have gotten here
regardless i think that we were going
like we were going down a really
dangerous path and
the technology has allowed us to
to re-steer our course and and go down
this like this is the way that it's
supposed to be um but it's like it's a
correction
and i don't think that that would have
you know i don't mean i don't
you know maybe there would be some other
kind of technology where ai would have
been able to do in reality ai doesn't do
that right ai actually skews the other
way so
yeah maybe it is just web 3 that allows
or at least what we know of now or maybe
tomorrow it's going to be like quantum
computing
yeah it's it's pretty exciting
yeah no i'm i'm really excited for
one of the things that really got me
into cryptocurrency and blockchain in
general was
uh banking the unbanked and just you
know historically there have been
institutions that were established to
keep individuals from having bank
accounts and from being able to
participate in global networks and
blockchain and cryptocurrency and all
these other web three ideals basically
put the power into the hands of anybody
who has a a cell phone or a laptop you
know now you have these tools that grant
anyone access to these networks um
because they're permissionless
so that's
something that i'm really excited to see
playing out right now and also why i was
interested to learn more about dows
because we were talking about these good
old boy networks and these structures
and like this traditional corporate
structure
is
an obvious dinosaur like this is
something that is only around today
because it's been around for the past
couple hundred years
so
one of the things that i'm kind of
concerned about and i say this as
somebody who had a plan a government job
so i had the best benefits ever and i
moved over to covering blockchain and
now i'm a 1099 contractor i lost my
benefits i have to pay for my own health
care insurance so one of the
i guess reasons why corporate models
still thrive today is because there are
these
institutional benefits that people get
to
rely on so
i think maybe you can provide a little
bit more insight into this what are some
sort of opportunities out there or other
distributed organizations that are
looking at the people who are coming
into web3 and they're saying we're going
to be able to provide you with 401ks
with men uh medical
eye vision um dental care are there any
sort of blossoming infrastructures that
are making it possible for people to get
benefits and work in like distributed
autonomous organizations yeah and that's
sort of exactly what the employment
commons and opolis does and it kind of
john pauler's brainchild back in i don't
know how many how many years he's been
working on this but he's certainly been
in the space for a long time
and it was the vision to create or to to
provide resources for the self-sovereign
worker um to create a public good
infrastructure
with the use of daos and web3 technology
so you
as a freelancer as a 1099 can form your
own llc
join the commons as a member
it's democratically run it's got a
progressive decentralization strategy as
well that's built into its bylaws so
that when it hits a thousand members it
will be fully flat and decentralized but
it gives you access to
things that you wouldn't have otherwise
you'd be vulnerable it totally shifts
the power dynamic in that way as a
freelancer because now you have you have
vision and dental and life insurance and
health care and it's so much it's so
competitive to what like the marketplace
rates are and i was on the phone with
somebody from california and they said
that the
the savings is something like 60 a month
to what you would go out and get in in
the markets
um which is huge for a freelancer right
it allows them to disassociate from that
traditional corporate infrastructure and
have bargaining power have negotiating
power in a way that they haven't had
before and feel protected and the fact
that it really forces
these workers to go out and and wrap
themselves in an llc i think is is
really smart i know a lot of people
had just been doing it individually and
potentially you know kind of walk around
with a lot of liability um
looking forward corporations provide
really great benefits and opolis is now
making it possible for freelancers to
get this maybe like looking towards the
next step are there any other sort of
organizations or entities that are
providing
other resources that replace something
that maybe like a corporate structure
would have provided for somebody are you
aware of anything like that it might be
too broad a question i know i'm sure
that there are tons out there i know you
know there's um
there are resources like like accounting
systems and
kind of reporting platforms and things
like that like that help you stay
compliant
but i think this is this is really the
biggest one that was
basically handcuffing
employees to their employers because of
this like the benefits that they would
cover over them
and i remember i first heard about
opolis in 2018 it felt like it was still
so far away and now here we are four
years later would you say that it's
delivering now like a freelance employee
can confidently gain a 401k in
healthcare and be protected and receive
some of the same benefits they would
from a corporation yeah it absolutely is
i mean membership is growing at
warp speed you can
get the benefit of the work token if you
join which is based on
annual payroll volume read their
off-white paper which is actually a
really solid paper that i contributed to
um
but it's yeah i mean you
get all of your benefits you get paid
you can get paid in crypto
and
you get work tokens as well to kind of
incentivize more payroll volume to move
the system and you're a member of a
co-op like everybody should be a member
of a co-op well i'm definitely
interested not only because uh i'm 1099
but also because it's colorado grown so
i'll be talking with some ambassadors
about maybe potentially migrating from
market insurance to opolis sponsored
insurance i think you'll see a big
difference make sure you quote launch
legal as your
[Music]
will do you get work tokens as for
referring others
awesome
yeah that sounds really cool so um kind
of wrapping up we've had we've heard a
lot of great use cases for dows uh some
ones that you're you're particularly
working on yourself and some really
interesting kind of legal perspectives
as to why individuals or entities might
want to incorporate as adele so kind of
like
wrapping up looking forward in the next
three to five years
or maybe not even in that time frame but
like what do you see as the next steps
or
what's the future for dows what are you
excited about for them i am excited
about
the volume of dao is right and working
through a lot of the growing pains that
i've seen in the last 18 months or so so
a lot around like governance how to
work against that decline in
participation
i'm excited about seeing
kind of more
innovation and more development on the
tooling side as well i think it's
getting more sophisticated
i am also excited to
for for at least local dows to feel
comfort and staying in the us um in our
regulatory environment you know it's
very gray as we all know
and i
i want to keep innovation here i want to
keep that kind of economic activity here
as well so
that is
my biggest goal um that not everybody
goes up and forms their dao in the
caymans or in switzerland
and i think that hopefully we're heading
there and i think that's set by
precedent right that we're not like
these dials are not composed of bad
actors that they are you know mostly
people trying to do good things and and
coordinate their resources and
capital
yeah i don't know what the answer is to
solving the legal gray
areas but you know any country that kind
of blocks blockchain companies from
being founded there is potentially
going back to the 90s potentially saying
internet companies can't be built here
i'm not sure if the magnitude is that
big or if it will be bigger but it is
definitely something that i'm concerned
about and kind of
wrapping up the name of this podcast is
the smart economy podcast so this can be
an answer just like doubts it can be
anything but what does the smart economy
mean to you smart economy means an
active
economy with participants not just
bystanders so
if you stand to the side and watch
things watch things happen then
there is going to be a pool of
interests that are not aligned with
yours and
you're just passive you can't blame
anybody but yourself so it's really
engagement in the economy awesome well i
was really excited to have you join i
know that you have a plethora of
knowledge and insight that i couldn't
wait to pluck from your brain so it was
an honor to have you come join the newly
revamped smart economy podcast you have
if somebody wants to
learn more about you or your business
what's the best way that they can
reach out to you or learn more about
launch legal thank you so much for
having me it's been such a pleasure you
can follow me on twitter
at
muchnickmuch and ikyvjev
or email me at yevy
launch
legal.com
awesome well uh hopefully we get to have
you back on another series about
another blockchain topic to pick your
brain
and until then i can't wait to see you
again at a live blockchain event in
person thank you
well what did you think of that
conversation not only was yav's entrance
into the legal profession a unique one
but it was also really interesting to
hear about the different types of
projects that have sought her legal
advice over the past five years it was
also intriguing to learn more about the
taos that yev is participating in which
are helping focus on those impacted in
ukraine by the recent war and it was
really cool to hear yev describe women
entering the blockchain industry as a
renaissance i hope to delve deeper into
this topic in a future series with that
i want to thank you so much for taking
the time to listen to the smart economy
podcast if you liked what you heard and
want to support the show please keep neo
news today in mind when voting for your
neo council representative as a part of
neo's governance process we appreciate
you and we look forward to catching you
next time
you